[SWISH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And just one more thing that
we begin to appreciate as we
start to awaken.
And when we ask ourselves,
if all this is true,
what are we doing here?
How did we get caught
in this absurdity?
What are we doing in this
illusion of separateness?
What is the meaning
of incarnation?
Why did it all start?
In the minute you start to
ask those questions, that's
part of this process.
And what seems to be
required since that which
asks that question, which is
the analytic rational mind
can't know the answer
because like it's
a subsystem that
can't know the meta
system that lies behind it.
There's an extraordinary
appreciation
that even though you
can't know the answer,
you can devote your life
to approaching the answer,
that there is an
appreciation that incarnation
or what would be called
karma is a blueprint
for your own awakening.
You can call my life my karma,
my incarnation my curriculum.
It is a set of life experiences
which you're creating.
It's how you see reality
and how I see reality,
our different realities.
And the fact that yours
is different from mine
isn't by chance, it's
by karma, and that karma
turns into your Dharma.
That means the stuff that's
given to you becomes your path,
and you use your
unique entrapment
as the vehicle for getting
free of entrapment.
So as the Gita says, to do
someone else's Dharma is,
gunner, not going to work.
You have to do your own.
See, the real appreciation
and the fun of it
is to realize that
just where you are
you are in exactly
the right place
at this moment from your
evolutionary point of view.
There are no errors in the game.
There's not even a
possibility of one.
Because most everybody hides
and if it only weren't for this,
and even hiding in
that is perfect.
It's too beautiful.
It's too beautiful that
your incarnation turns out
to be the blueprint
for your liberation.
Who would have expected that?
I mean, Judeo-Christian
[? teachings ?]
all teach that it's an error.
It's some falling
from grace, it's
some really some abysmal thing.
Full of lust, and greed,
and fear, and hatred.
Those are the stepping stones
of the path to enlightenment.
Greed, you go through
greed into trance greed.
I want it, I want it, I want
it, I want it until, right,
and this is it.
But then the recognition that
all the desires and motives
there in your unique game that
are bringing you to something,
it's always the same something.
It's a certain
feeling of well-being,
a certain feeling
of, yeah, I'm home.
Oh, phew.
A new car, the good
diagnosis, the whatever
it is, it's oh, yes, smooth.
And for a moment, you feel hmm.
But it changes.
You remember the
king that was going
to kill the tribe of people, and
the tribe came and they said,
is there anything we
can do to prevent you
from killing all of us?
And he said, if you can
come up with something
that when I'm sad
will make me happy,
you've got overnight to do it.
And the wise men all gathered
and then they formed a ring
and they gave him a ring, and
the rings had inscribed in it,
and this too shall pass.
Now he said, oh,
that's very wise.
Because what he
didn't recognize,
it works the other way, too.
God, this is
wonderful, it'll pass.
It's just another polarity.
If you try to milk
the game for pleasure,
you're investing in
displeasure or pain.
Beyond pleasure and
pain, what is there?
There is a quality
of happiness that
embraces pleasure and pain,
all of it, all at once.
Oh, yes, it's the moment.
It's the present moment.
It's dying in the
moment of fullness.
That's what our game is about.
This is the metaphysical
underpinnings
of what it is
we're playing with.